NMS-14635: Add alt text to Operation (pt. 4) (#5743)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/admin/geocoder.adoc

= Geocoder Service

The geocoder service resolves geolocation information within {page-component-title}.
{page-component-title} supports several external geocoder services.
By default, geolocation resolution is disabled.

When enabled, geolocation is performed based on the presence of address-related asset fields assigned to a node.
The geocoder service will run only against nodes that are missing latitude and longitude fields, but that do have street address fields.
See xref:deep-dive/provisioning/directed-discovery.adoc[Provisioning] for steps to define asset fields on a requisition.

Resolved coordinates are stored in the database as node asset fields, but the geocoder service does not update requisitions.

== Address-based geocoding

To enable or configure the geocoder service, use the web-based configuration tool.

> In the {page-component-title} web UI, click the *gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.

Author: For this, we generally refer to the top-right of the screen, but I can make a note of it if we want to update this throughout the docs.

> To enable or configure the geocoder service, use the web-based configuration tool.
> In the {page-component-title} web UI, click the *gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.
> Under Provisioning, select *Configure Geocoder Service*.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable or configure the geocoder service, use the web-based configuration tool:

. In the {page-component-title} web UI, click the *gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.
. Under Provisioning, select *Configure Geocoder Service*.
. You can use one of three geocoder services: Google, Mapquest, or Nominatim.
To enable one, turn the corresponding switch *On*.
. Navigate to the appropriate tab and configure the geocoder service:
** *Google:*
*** Choose whether to authenticate using the `clientId` and signature.
*** Type the API key and configure the timeout.
*** Choose whether to use the system proxy.
** *Mapquest:*
*** Type the API key.
*** Choose whether to use the system proxy.
** *Nominatim:*
*** Type your email address.
*** (Optional) Configure the user agent and referer.
*** Accept the terms of use.
*** Choose whether to use the system proxy.
```

NOTE: If you would prefer to manually edit the configuration files, you can set the active geocoder service via the `activeGeocoderId` property in `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/org.opennms.features.geocoder.cfg`.

> === Nominatim

Author: ```suggestion
=== Nominatim

https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Nominatim[Nominatim] is a tool that searches OpenStreetMap data and creates synthetic addresses for OpenStreetMap points.
It lets {page-component-title} look up coordinates for a given address (geolocation).
For more information, see the https://nominatim.org/release-docs/develop/[official Nominatim documentation].
```

> For more details, see the https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Nominatim[official Nominatim documentation] and check the https://operations.osmfoundation.org/policies/nominatim/[Nominatim Usage Policy] before using the geocoder service.

Author: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Be sure to check the https://operations.osmfoundation.org/policies/nominatim/[Nominatim Usage Policy] before using the geocoder service.
```

> .Nominatim geocoder service properties

Author: ```suggestion
[caption=]
.Nominatim geocoder service properties
```

=== Google

The Google geocoder API requires at least an `apiKey` or a `clientId` and `signature`.
For more details, see the https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key[official Google documentation].

> .Google geocoder API properties

Author: ```suggestion
[caption=]
.Google geocoder API properties
```

[cols="1,3,1,1"]
|===
| Property  | Description | Type  | Default Value

4+|*Required*

| apiKey
| The apiKey provided by the Google Cloud platform.
Required only if `useEnterpriseCredentials` is false.
| String
| _Empty_

| clientId
| The Google geocoder API client ID.
Required only if `useEnterpriseCredentials` is true.
| String
| _Empty_

| signature
| The Google geocoder API signature.
| String
| _Empty_

4+| *Optional*

| useEnterpriseCredentials
| If authentication with `clientId` and `signature` is required, set this to `true`.
| Boolean
| false

| useSystemProxy
| Should the system-wide proxy settings be used?

>   Configure the system proxy settings in <<deep-dive/admin/system-properties/introduction.adoc#ga-opennms-system-properties, `opennms.conf`>>.

Author: Huh, that's odd. In that case, I'll remove the ticks. Maybe it's something we could address in the style settings in the future.

```suggestion
  Configure the system proxy settings in <<deep-dive/admin/system-properties/introduction.adoc#ga-opennms-system-properties, opennms.conf>>.
```

| Boolean
| false

| timeout
| The connection timeout, in milliseconds, during which the Geocoder tries to resolve a single geolocation.
| Integer
| 500
|===

NOTE: These properties are recorded in `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/org.opennms.features.geocoder.google.cfg`.

> === MapQuest

Author: ```suggestion
=== MapQuest

The MapQuest geocoder lets {page-component-title} associate latitude and longitude coordinates with an actual address (geolocation).
```

For more details, refer to the https://developer.mapquest.com/documentation/geocoding-api/[official MapQuest documentation].

> .MapQuest geocoder API properties

Author: ```suggestion
[caption=]
.MapQuest geocoder API properties
```

[cols="1,3,1,2"]
|===
| Property  | Description | Type  | Default Value

4+| *Required*

| apiKey
| The API key.
| String
| _Empty_

| url
| The URL template for the MapQuest Geocoder API.
The `apikey` and `query` strings are substituted before making the request.
| String
| `\http://www.mapquestapi.com/geocoding/v1/address?format=json&key=\{apikey}&amp;maxResults=1&location=\{query}`

4+| *Optional*

| useSystemProxy
| Should the system-wide proxy settings be used?

> Configure the system proxy settings in <<deep-dive/admin/system-properties/introduction.adoc#ga-opennms-system-properties, `opennms.conf`>>.

Author: ```suggestion
Configure the system proxy settings in <<deep-dive/admin/system-properties/introduction.adoc#ga-opennms-system-properties, opennms.conf>>.
```
